Tena Koutou Tena Koutou Katoa
Thank you all for meeting with me so I can tell you more about myself and my professional experience.

For the next 10 minutes, I will focus on explaning about the process I follow to identyfy relevant data sources
and provide an example where I have use my data wrangling skills to prepare data for analysis and visualization.

First, I would like to show you this diagram which ilustrates my process for identifying relevant data sources. 
In the past, I've have used the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA).
This methodology is a systematic approach often used to conduct literature reviews.
While doing my PhD, I've used this methodology to gather the most relevant papers in my area of research,
which I will explain further in the following slides. 

A central topic of my doctoral thesis was the application of Species Distribution Models, also known as
Ecological Niche Models. For simplicity, I will refer to this as SDMs for short. In a nutshell, SDMs are 
applications of computer algorithms used to predict the distribution of a species across geographic space 
and time using species occurrence and environmental data.  

Tipicaly, an SDMs excerise consist of 6 major steps which I'm no going to go over the nitty gritty details in 
this talk. Here, I will just focus on Step 1 to 3 because this are the steps where data wrangling skills come in handy.

In this diagram, I am showing an actual application of an SDMs which comes from one of the chapters
in my doctoral thesis. One of thesis chapters focused on using SDMs to predict the distribution of an invasive 
species in New Zealand. In the following slides, I will guide you through the steps in the process. 

Before writing any code, an Ecologist needs to make a decision about what taxa and for what purpose the 
predictive models will be used for. In my case, I wanted to use the invasie kelp Undaria pinnatifida becuase
of its negative impacts in New Zealand and the data available for modelling its distribution. So, that was easy, we
are done with Step 1. 



 

 
  




